Paul is in Rome.
He's in prison, and he knows
that his life is almost over.
That's the context now in which we read.
He looks back on God's goodness
to him, and he looks forward
to the dangers and the hope.
The Lord stood by me, gave me
strength to proclaim the message.
Well, it is, uh, another great
cold day to hang out with y'all.
Um, I don't know about you, but
I think I could have handled
a couple more weeks of warmth.
I know this is usually unique to
be this warm that long and now it's
cold, but it's almost like this shock.
It's like, let's go from 70 to snow.
Um, and then of course I do what you
shouldn't do in Ohio, which is when
it snows, don't clean up your car
till the next day, which means then it
was iced and I should have done that.
So I will remember next time, hopefully,
um, but hopefully you guys had a
great week and are coming in today
excited about, um, God's word and
what he has to share with us today.
Um, we're gonna be in
second Timothy chapter two.
We're gonna complete the chapter today.
Um, we'll be starting in verse
19 of second Timothy chapter two.
Um, one of the things just kind
of give everybody a heads up just
to re remind y'all, talk more
about it at the end of service.
But, um, next Sunday we will
not have service, um, here.
And so we are doing, uh, the Hamilton
welcomes the holidays on Saturday night.
That's our.
We typically do on a surf Sunday.
It's gonna be on a Saturday.
And so go and serve and be a part of that,
and that'll be our part of gathering.
Um, and then we'll meet back on the
27th, I believe, and that'll be, um,
the week that we actually will take
a, a break from second Timothy and
we'll jump into a four week series, uh,
with Christmas, uh, Christmas series.
And I think you guys will
be excited about that.
And, uh, so just want to give
you some heads up to be prepared
for that and, and not miss that.
Um, I wanna start off with this question,
uh, and I'm hoping, uh, I know the
answer, but I'm gonna ask this question.
How many of you in this room want
to be used by God to do great
in mighty things in your life?
If you do, where is you?
Cool.
Most majority, some, uh,
would say that, right?
And this is good because when you
answer that question, everything
that follows hopefully will help.
Be used by God in great and mighty ways.
Um, this text is really going to
challenge us in that way and this
idea of, of being used by God.
How can we be used by God?
And and, and what is it going to take?
And obviously God's got
a part in it, right?
Um, but we do as well.
And, uh, it's, it's interesting how
God brings us out in this text and
how Paul shares it with us, and so
I'm excited to share it with you.
Um, but I wanna start off with this.
Um, have you ever been in a job or
maybe in a gym or somewhere around
another person where it seems like
things are always going right for them?
They're getting the breaks,
they're getting the promotions.
They always seem to be, again, I think
Jim, like they're lifting heavier.
They always seem to be having
something greater than you, right?
And you sit there and go,
What is it going to take?
For me to get that promotion, what's
it going to take for me to, to lift
that weight or to to be that person?
And again, I know that may not be
great in that self-reflection because
we should measure self against
other people, but I think at times
we aspire to be something greater.
And I hope today we'll see that God
desires for us to be greatly used
by him, and, uh, that he desires
to do exceedingly, abundantly,
more than you can ask or think.
So you may not even know right
now, you may be sitting here
going, You know, God can't use me.
I mean, I, I'm not really special.
But you're gonna find that
God thinks you're special.
And he has some amazing things
for you to be a part of.
So we're gonna learn this, that as we
empty ourselves of sin, selfishness,
and distractions in our life, and
replace them with the pursuit of
righteousness, faith, love, and
peace, that God will invite us into
opportunities to serve him in ways like
we've never thought we could be served.
That we could serve God.
Um, and so just to kind of remind
us where we are again, second
Timothy, Paul's writing into
Timothy is True Son of the Faith.
I'm trying to be a little bit
shorter in this summary cuz most
of you have been around long enough
that you're like, Okay, we get it.
But what do we know about repetition?
Repetition brings about memorization?
Memorization allows us that as we
continue to live out our faith, that
hopefully you'll be like, you know,
I'm so tired of Pastor Ben mentioning
everything about Second Timothy, that
when you're having a conversation with
somebody and they're saying, Hey, I'm
really struggling in my faith, and
you can think, you know, Paul said to
Timothy one day that, that we really
need to fan into flame the faith that I
see in you, that I've seen in your life.
You'll remember the scripture,
you'll remember why Paul wrote this
letter, and it'll be useful for you.
So don't hate the messenger.
I'm just trying to prepare you.
Um, so second Timothy, again,
Paul is encouraging Timothy
in his faith because Timothy.
Uh, would be a little bit
timid or a little bit afraid.
Obviously, his, his fa true father
in the faith is, is in prison being
persecuted for his, his faith, and
he is going to to head towards death.
And so that may be a little
bit scary to Timothy.
Uh, and because of that, Paul once
makes sure that Timothy doesn't shrink
back and really steps into the role.
That, uh, Paul is going to leave
as a void and he's gonna step into
that role of leading the church.
And so he's challenging him in his
faith and his gift, and he's challenging
Timothy to join him in the suffering
because the suffering is worth it
in the reward that he's receives.
And, and to train other believers to
come alongside Timothy to continue
to take that message to the world.
And then he, he's been dealing with
this in the last couple of verses
that we've been dealing with, is to
avoid certain things that distract
us, distract the church from the
mission that God has called us.
And so he's not just speaking
this over Timothy's life.
The cool part is because the word of
godes came to each one of us in this room.
God is speaking this over your
life, and so when we read the
scripture, we should always read
it in context who he's talking to.
But then we need to ask the
question, What does this mean for me?
What does this mean for me?
How does this apply to mean?
And so we're gonna continue on in
this idea of avoiding distractions
and beginning something new.
And so again, we're gonna read in second
Timothy chapter two starting in verse 19.
Uh, and this is what Paul says.
He says, Nevertheless, God's
solid foundation stands.
Bearing this inscription, the
Lord knows those who are his.
And let everyone who calls on the name
of the Lord turn away from wickedness.
Now, in a large house, there are not only
golden silver vessels, but also those
of wood and clay, some for honorable
use and some for dishonorable use.
So if anyone purifies him, From anything
dishonorable, he will be a special
instrument set apart, useful to the
master, prepared for every good work.
I want you to take that verse,
I want you to memorize it.
I want you to write that down
and repeat that to yourself.
I'm gonna read one more time.
I'm gonna continue on.
So if anyone purifies himself, Or
herself from anything dishonorable.
He will be special instrument
set apart, useful to the master,
prepared for every good work.
And he says, Flee from youthful passions
and pursue righteousness, faith, love,
and peace along with those who are called
um, who call on the Lord from a pure.
But reject foolish and ignorant disputes
because you know that they breed quarrels.
The Lord's servant must not quarrel,
but must be gentle to everyone able
to teach and patient instructing
his opponents with gentleness.
Perhaps God will grant them
repentance, leading them to
the knowledge of the truth.
Then they may come to their senses
and escape the trap of the devil who
has taken them captive to do his.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, that your
word does not return void, Lord, and
that it changes our lives today, Lord,
that we leave outta here, uh, with a
reminder that we can be greatly used by
you as we surrender ourselves over to
you and pursue our relationship with you.
And so, Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So just to remind you and remind
myself as well what just happened
in the verses before, cuz he says
nevertheless, so if you remember,
there was some, what we say is, uh,
unhealthy conversations in the church.
There was some conversations that were
not godly, so ungodly conversations
that were happening in the church that
was causing disputes in the church,
arguments in the church that was
distracting them from the mission.
And then he began to point out two men
who actually was teaching wrong theology.
They were teaching that the resurrection
had already happened, and these men were
leading people to stray from their faith.
And he says this, nevertheless, And he
begins to talk about really God's house.
And he begins to talk first in verse
19 about God's solid foundation.
And so he says Nevertheless.
And so basically what he's saying is,
in spite of all these useless arguments
and ungodly discussions that have
happened in the church, that have led
others to ruin in their faith, despite
that and all the brokenness around.
God never changes.
God's foundation never changes.
His truth stands the test of time.
And his truth stands the challenges
that we face from false teachers, from
false information, from the infighting.
It, it, it changes us.
It, it never, his, his truth never
changes, but it changes us in how,
um, it continues to affect our life.
And so Paul describes, again, this great.
When you think about a great
house, again, he's thinking about
the house of God, and within that
house of God, um, is the people of.
And he starts again with this foundation.
And we know this, that the foundation
of our faith is what will help us
live out our faith consistently for
the glory of God and for the benefit
of ourselves and those around us.
And I can't help but thinking of
Matthew Chapter 7 24 through 27.
Most of you have probably heard
this before, but it says this,
Therefore, everyone who hears
these words of mine and acts on.
Will be like wise men who built
his house on a rock and the rain
fell and the rivers rose and the
winds blew and pounded that house.
Yet it didn't collapse because
its foundation was on the rock.
But then he says this, but everyone
who hears these words of mine and
doesn't act on them will be foolish.
It'd be a foolish man who
built his house on the sand.
The rain fell and the rivers rose and the
winds blew and pounded that house and it.
And it collapsed with a great crash.
What's that remind you?
Is that as a church, Paul is telling
us and he's telling Timothy that
our foundation as a church, as a,
as a follower of Christ is on Jesus.
It's on his word.
And I think it's so critical, cuz
this is the part that I think that
all of us can understand is that
every week, We're hearing truth,
especially at least on Sundays.
I'm hoping every day you're in the
word, but you're hearing truth.
He doesn't say just who hears.
It's, who hears and follows will have a
solid, solid foundation, not who hears and
ignores, they will have a weak foundation.
So it's the responsibility and this
is the the huge part where we think
about God has provided salvation.
God has provided the word.
We have been given the
ability to accept or.
And if we want a solid foundation
that allows us to be strong in our
faith and to be used by God, we need
to follow or act on those words.
And so that's the challenge that
Paul gives us, gives Timothy and this
idea to withstand false teaching,
to withstand all the things that
are trying to attack our faith.
We need a solid foundation.
And so he mentions two things here.
If you'll look there in the
verse, it says the, there's two.
He says, Bearing these inscriptions.
The Lord knows who are his.
And then he says this, Um, And let
everyone who calls in the name of the
Lord turn away from Wick wickedness.
So here's the cool part.
The Lord knows who is who is his, and
this is what he's basically saying is
despite us looking and saying, Hey,
there, there's people in the church.
And we look all around and there's,
there's some confusion and there's
some people that are trying to, to be
deceiving and sometimes it's hard to
know what is truth and what is not.
The Lord knows who's His, and
those who know the Lord should
know they are his as well.
Well, how do we.
He says this in the second part when
he mentions this and this idea that he
says, Let everyone who calls in the name
of the Lord turn away from wickedness.
It's this word called conviction.
We talk about conviction.
Conviction is something inside of
us, tells us what we are doing,
what we are following, what we
are trying to believe is wrong.
That's a spirit of God inside of us.
And so as much that that God knows
who are his, we can know we are His
as well through this conviction to
wanting to turn from our wicked.
And so that would, that's a challenge
to all of us in this idea of, if
you ever wonder, man, am I saved,
have I given my life to Christ?
And, and the question is, do you
have a conviction inside that you
truly wanna follow after Jesus and
begin to, to purify yourself and, and
follow after Jesus, or do you not?
And that may be the true test.
And if you don't guess what?
You still can choose God,
um, and, and follow after.
So Ephesians one, four says
this for, he chose us in him.
So that's God choosing us before the
foundation of the world to be holy
and blameless and love before him to
be set apart basically before God.
And so here's kind of just
this idea with that verse, and
we'll move, kind of move on.
God knows who is hi his,
and that is awesome, right?
God already knows that.
But it's also important for us that
we can know that we are his i'll.
I'll tell you this, the more
confident you are in your.
You are Jesus's.
You will go out and live your
faith because here's what you
know, nobody can take that away.
You're untouch.
That's the crazy part that I think some
of us, we struggle to deal with, that
the only way in which we can be touched,
which means our lives can be destroyed,
or that we can be challenged in our faith,
or we can be, whatever you wanna call
it, tested, is that the Lord allows that.
That may be comforting to you or not,
but to me it is because that means this,
that everything that God is doing in
my life is for a reason to grow me in
my faith and to help others know him
with that confidence that I know I am.
It changes the way I live my life.
I, I've got unlimited resources from God.
I've got unlimited faith from God.
I've got unlimited hope and peace and
joy and these things in which we need,
and that Timothy in this time needs.
He needs to have this confidence in
God despite all the people around
him that are trying to destroy the
church and trying to change the
information of what the truth is.
We all need this.
We need to hear and we need to follow.
So as Paul begins to describe now in
this next couple verses, this not only
this large house, but the what's inside
of it, uh, let's read these verses again
and then we'll kind of break it down.
He says, Now in a large house.
So we already know what the foundations
Christ right now in a large house,
there's not only gold and silver
vessels, but also those of wooden clay.
Some for honorable and some for dishonor.
So if anyone purifies himself from
anything dishonorable, you'll be a special
instrument set apart, useful to the
master, and prepared for every good work.
Again, these are moments where I
wish sometimes would just, can we
just be plain with what this means?
Because like gold and silver and his clay
and stuff, and so just the simple part
of this, this is how we break this down.
Paul describes the honor, the
people of honor are those who are
of gold and silver vessels, right?
Used for special services.
Think of this.
Anybody ever remember going to grandma's
house And the only time we got up to
find China was when people came over.
It was a special.
And you better not break it.
And a lot of times the kids didn't
get to fine China, it was only adults.
And then it would sit up in
the, you know, in storage.
Well, here's the thing, We're
not just fine China because we
don't just come out every once
in a while for special occasions.
But we're special in that idea
of, of something we hold special
use for special occasions.
And so I would even say this, that we.
We are honorable, right?
Gold and silver vessels we're well
equipped and pure for the greatest work.
But then he goes on to talk
about the people of dishonor,
which would be the wooden clay.
Think of wooden clay.
Does not last the test of time.
And these things, or these people
would be false teachers or people
refusing to repent of their
stands or believe a false doc.
Paul is sitting here describing people
in the church, and I think this is so
important cuz I think it's easy to look
at things and say, Well, this, in the
church everybody's gold and silver.
Outside of the church, we
would say that's wood and clay.
He's talking about the people in the
church that can be either wood and
clay that are falling away from the
truth, believing false teachings,
not willing to repent of their sins.
And then there can be people who
are well equipped that are purified
in their faith that are gold and.
And so when we think about these
people in the church that he's
describing, we have a choice.
He says, These vessels, which are
people of honor or dishonor, and I don't
want to be as clear as I possibly can.
We have a choice in receiving salvation.
We have a choice of being
used by God ultimately.
Our faith comes from Jesus, right?
Being saved is from what
Jesus has done in the cross.
I never want you to think I need
to work in order to please God so
that he forgives me of my sins.
I want you to know this, that
Jesus Christ forgave you of your
sins because of your faith and
what he did, not your works, but.
After we've received that grace and mercy
now to be used by God, that responsibility
is not only on God, because God is
the one that gives us opportunity to
be used, but it is on us to be used.
It's on us to be used, and the good part
is God gives us the power to do that.
So he's challenging Timothy and all of
the readers to draw this line in the.
I think of Joshua one where he says,
Choose, or it says, That's actually
at the end of Joshua, where he says,
Choose who you will serve this day.
As for me in my house, we
will choose to serve the Lord.
Every day, you and me are getting
an opportunity to choose the Lord
or ourself the Lord, or my sinful
nature the Lord, or false truths.
Every single day we are faced
with these choices, and here's
what it says in verse 20.
He says this.
So if anyone, that word if is
so critical cuz it's not saying
everyone, he says if that's a choice.
So if you choose right, anyone,
Pures purifies, um, himself
from anything dishonorable, he
will be a special instrument.
So if we decide to be used for
honor, We purify ourselves as
verse 21 says, And even in verse
22, we flee youthful passions.
So let's talk about the word purify.
Um, most of you are probably used
to that if you have bad water.
Well, Hamilton's known for the
greatest water in the world, so you
don't have to purify that, right?
Um, but purify means to remove or
extract something from our lives
to remove or extract something
from our lives, and then to flee.
Let me give you a great picture of.
I may be dating myself here a little
bit, but who has watched Forrest Gump?
Okay.
A lot of people have.
Great, and I'm not the only one.
Think of the scene where, uh, what,
what, what was the girl's name?
Gny G.
Well, you know, Forrest was
getting ready to get chased
by his, uh, his, uh, bullies.
And he, she says, What?
Run Forst.
Run.
Good.
You guys know that the,
So what does fors do?
He turns and he begins to run.
Does anybody remember
what was on his legs?
Braces.
And, and, and what did he was he do, He
was fleeing, but he could only go so fast.
But the more that he fled,
those braces broke off.
And guess what he was?
He began to run quicker and
quicker away from the enemy,
away from the ungodly things.
And the cool part is it transitions
him growing up older and he was
just this runner and ran fast and
ran all these places and it seemed
like he was always fleeing from.
From things that could hold
him down and weigh him down.
So when we think about this idea of
fleeing or purifying, it's running
away from, and he's saying run away
from things that are dishonorable.
So just based upon our teaching,
but then also in our lives, I
wanna engage you a little bit.
What are the things that he is
challenging us to flee and to
run, or to purify ourselves from
when it comes to the dishonorable?
What are the things that he
is challenging us to flee from
or to purify ourselves from?
Uh, in, in, in regards to
the dishonorable things.
What are some things, Let's
just start naming some things.
Let's get practical pride.
What was that?
Anger?
Somebody else say something over here.
Selfishness.
What?
I, I, One of you said something greed.
Yes.
What else?
Slander, slander, fear.
Yes.
We could keep going on guys.
Like there's this long list and at
times we're probably wondering like,
Oh man, how do we keep up with this?
How do we keep up with
running from all these things?
And, and even Paul dealt with these
rights from false teaching, fighting
over words, irreverent speech,
anything contrary to the word of God.
Um, how do we even know how to get rid of
these things or how to avoid these things?
And then he mentions this
word, youthful passions.
I started studying this a little bit.
Number one, you don't have to be youth
in order to have youthful passions.
You can be an older person
and have youthful passions.
This also when you think of it, like,
my first thought was lust, right?
This is all gotta be about lust.
It's not only lust.
When you think about youthful passions,
he's saying also run from immature living.
Lying, cheating, selfishness.
These are all things you
typically see in a youthful mind.
And if you're young, I'm not meaning that
it's you, but I just know as a youth,
these are the things we think of, right?
Um, and, and, and we think about this.
He says, If we purify ourselves
and flee from these things will
be a special instrument set apart,
useful for the master for Jesus.
Um, and I started thinking about, I'm
gonna kind of change my story a little
bit from something I heard the other day.
But there's somebody who's a coach
and they have a player on their
team, um, who isn't going to rehab.
They have a injury, but they, they
wanna be a starter on the team, and
they're complaining to the coach that,
Why am I not starting on the team?
Why, why, why am I not even
being included in the practice?
And she's like, Well,
you're not going to rehab.
You're, you're not.
Purifying yourself.
You're not helping yourself
become stronger to be used
for our, our, our team.
And so if you're not willing to take
that on yourself, I'm not gonna put
you on the field for you to be a
part of the starting team, you would,
you wouldn't be any value to me.
Now, that's hard truth for her to hear
because the thing is, if, if, if she
would just go and, and, and work on rehab
and work on getting better, she could
possibly be part of the starting team.
See, I look at this in the same way.
At times we say, I wanna be used by.
God used me.
Why aren't you sticking me in?
Why aren't you use me for greater things?
I see my friend over here, they
got the promotion and I'm being
figurative here in the spiritual world.
You know, they're doing great
and mighty things for God.
God seems to be using them
in this area of their life.
Why not me, Lord?
And you know what the Lord may be saying?
Well, have you purified yourself.
Have you set yourself apart?
Have you and mentions this word, holy
right to be set apart for the work of God?
And he says this, Those
who purify themselves are.
To the master, Are we being useful?
Like, are we, And and that's a
challenging statement to ask yourself,
Is my life reflective of someone that
he could put in the starting lineup?
And, and, and I think that's good
for us to ask, not to let you
defeat yourself, but to know this,
that God is with you to overcome.
To be the starting team.
God's with you to help you grow in your
faith and begin to purify yourself and
set yourself apart for those good works.
And I love this in Ephesians two 10.
It says this, For we are his
workmanship created in Christ
Jesus for good works, which God
prepared ahead of time for us to do.
We were created for these good
works for these special services.
To be honorable, to be used by the master.
We were created for this.
And when we refuse to purify ourselves and
to flee from things, we are not fulfilling
our call that God has placed on our lives.
Now, what you may be asking, Well,
does that mean I'm not saved?
I, I'm not dealing with that.
What I would say is, is when we're not
purifying ourselves, we are walking
contrary to what God has called us.
This is not a salvation issue because a
lot of times, this is what I would say is
a right relationship issue with our lives.
So if you're wondering, well,
how do we do that perfectly?
We don't.
I mess up at times.
I've walked contrary to God's call
in my life and what do I experience,
conviction, What do I experience God
finding some way to get my attention to
draw me back because he desires to use me.
But what happens sometimes we reject.
Because we're afraid we reject
it because we have pride.
We reject it because we're
greedy, because you name it.
All the things we mentioned.
Those are things that are stopping
us from saying, I, I, I want to,
to be purified for, for God's work.
So we have a choice.
He desires all to be saved,
desires, all to be used.
And on the second part of 22, it says
this, Flee from youthful passions
and pursue righteousness, faith,
love, peace along with those who are.
On the Lord from a pure heart.
This is the part I want to,
to give you the second half.
I, I, I remember giving my life to
Christ and I felt like the only thing
that I was told to do was say no to sin.
Say no to youthful passions,
which is difficult.
Say no to all these things
that make me ungodly.
Say no, say no, say no, and
you know that The more that I
said no, what did I wanna do?
I wanted to say yes.
But I was reminded there were not to
just say no to sin, but yes to Jesus.
And when I changed my thinking
to say, I'm gonna avoid this.
So let's just give you an example.
Avoid lustful situations.
What am I gonna do?
Put my focus on Jesus and the Godly
things that he provides for me.
And the more that I focus on
Jesus, the less I focus on lust.
The the, the more I focus on Jesus.
I was a greedy person.
I'll just tell you this.
The reason why I went to college
is because I didn't wanna
be, I wanted to have money.
I went to college, which was stupid cuz
I still have all these student loans.
So that didn't work.
They lied to me.
Um, but I was greedy.
And the thing was, I didn't, I
mean, when it came to tithing
originally, I was like, No, I don't
wanna give my money to the church.
That's my money.
And I come to realize is God gave me 100%
of the money to Stuart well, and he's
asked me to be faithful with 10% of it.
I get to keep 90.
That's awesome.
And so in the midst of that faithfulness,
like God took away greediness.
Now I still fight it from time
to time just like anybody else.
But like when we look at this,
this is so important, important.
Don't just say no to Sam,
but say yes to Jesus.
And I think so many times as outsiders,
those who don't know or that know
Christians, here's what they think.
Christians have to follow a set of rules.
To not do this and not do that, and
to not do this, and to not do that.
And this is what I keep saying.
I wanna be more known for what
I'm for than what I'm against.
And here's the reason why.
People need to know, Obviously I'm
against sin and there's things,
but if they don't understand that
there's something beautiful with
the things that I do have, what?
What are those things?
Righteousness, faith, love, peace.
We'll see this later on.
Gentleness, if they
know those things in my.
They don't have to necessarily
know I'm not for something because
they already know what I'm for.
Those things are good, and when they
say they want to be right, they wanna
be uh, uh, uh, basically the love.
They wanna have peace.
They wanna have these things, and so those
are the things that I think draw people.
To Christ.
So again, he says not just to
say notice in, but yes to Jesus.
And so he says this to pursue.
And when we think about
pursuit, we think run after.
Don't give up, do whatever it takes.
I think about this way that every.
It seemed like every day, whenever I
started dating Britney, what did I,
I pursued her because I desired to
know her more, and then I got married.
And then guess what happens?
Sometimes in marriage we don't
pursue each other as much, and now
we need to do that more, right?
That's so important because if we don't,
what happens is our relationship grows
stagnant, and then we begin to wander.
So that's the relationship, but we think
about Jesus, we need to pursue Jesus
so that that relationship is strong.
And so when we think about
this, he says, Righteousness.
What is righteousness?
It's right.
Living or lining up with what the
word of God says or who Jesus is.
He mentions the word faith.
What is faith?
Living and believing as God exists and is
going to do what he says he's going to do.
Love.
What is love?
You go love chapter.
Love is patient.
Kindness, long suffering.
And then he mentions the word peace.
Choosing to live in harmony and peace
with everyone despite our differences.
See, these are things that he says
to pursue, and as we pursue them, we
stop looking at those youthful lus.
We stop looking at the things that are so
heavy and weighting us down, and we become
useful for the master, useful for God.
And so joining in on the mission
of God is greater than the things
in which we are leaving behind the
things in which sometimes hold us.
I know this is that God
desires to use each one of us.
And he mentions this, joining
those who are called, uh, from
the Lord as a in a pure heart.
And you'll see that at the back end of 22.
So he is saying, joining those
people who have already gone
before us, set the example.
I'll just tell you this.
It's easier for me to hit the mark when
I've seen somebody else do it before.
So how do you do this?
Number one, be the example so that you
can be the example for somebody else.
But the word of God
challenges me every day.
I look at, I look at Abraham's faith,
and yes, he had some mistakes, but
I look at his faith and I go, Man,
I wish I had faith like Abraham.
How did he do it?
One step at a time.
One decision at a time, Man, how did Paul
go through suffering and persecution?
How do I do that?
Man, he did it.
It was difficult, but he just kept
having faith and he kept being co.
He kept overcoming things and so these
people have gone before us, are great
examples, and then we can join them
in the mission that God has for us.
So we know this, What stops us
from pursuing these things, right?
To become a vessel or a person that
God can use for special things.
And we already mentioned it,
it's sin, it's selfishness, it's
distractions, it's fear, it's Laz.
But I believe that God has put
these verses in our church for
this time because he's reminding
us as a church why we exist.
Why we exist, to inspire hope, to
help people overcome the strain, the
the, the lack of commitment to the
Lord, to inspire them, to come to know
Jesus, and to help them to discover a
relationship with Jesus every single day.
And God is calling each one of us to do.
I just wanna give you guys
this, just to kind of give you
a little bit of an example.
I remember thinking back as I was
thinking of this message, that
this is a picture of my life.
I remember whenever I gave my life
to Christ, um, early on giving my
life to Christ, there was a lot of
purifying that had to go on for me.
Uh, and, and that was not easy.
There was a lot of sins that I had to
repent of, uh, be honest with people.
Uh, and, and it had some
difficult relationships.
There were people that I needed
to forgive, that I hated so
much that I wanted to kill.
There were things that I needed to
overcome and that was difficult.
It's not easy to purify yourself.
It's not easy to be open and vulnerable
and lay out your sins before God
and say, Forgive me, or to, to
even ask for others to forgive you.
That is a humbling place.
But I remember when I did that early on in
my faith, I believe it was the launching
pad to what God did in my life after that.
Because after that we started
getting more involved in the church.
And when I got more involved in the church
and I got more involved in following
Jesus, cuz I at work, I started at middle
of the day, like during lunch I would
get outta my Bible and I was reading my
Bible and it was convicting me and it was
reminding me of truths and my faith grew.
And that's where I started seeing this.
God gave me opportunity to play on
the youth band and then to help in
youth and then to speak at youth.
And then God gave me the opportunity
to obviously get more involved in our
church and more involved in our church.
I got the more it seems like that I was
repenting of sin and I was following
God's lead and I was learning the
word of God and God gave me more and
more opportunities to be used by him.
But you know, there, there's actually
been seasons even since I've given
my life to Christ where I've not had.
Great faith and I've, I've rejected
repenting of some things that I'm just
wrestling with because guess what?
Even I'm not perfect.
And I think that's something we need to
know is this could be all of us where
we're struggling in a season of our
life, where at one point we had purified
ourselves and we're running after Jesus
and God's used us and there's been
points where we've just fallen away.
So I wanna just challenge you from
the word of God, that God desires
to use you for a special purpose.
And you can overcome these things.
God has the ability to work in and
through you to overcome these things,
to receive forgiveness, to, to go after
what God has called you to go after.
And, um, I would say this, Paul knew
Timothy and the people he was writing
to, uh, and the people that Timothy
would eventually lead, had so much
potential, but they were getting distract.
By these things.
Labors getting distracted by these
things and he's challenging them and
he's challenging us to, to not get
distracted anymore, that God is ready
and willing to use each one of us
in this room to build his kingdom.
So let's look at these last couple
of verses here, 23 through 26.
I'm gonna summarize these quickly
and here's the reason why.
As we begin to study through this
chapter, we've been talking a lot.
Um, these foolish conversations are
ignorant disputes, as it says here.
Um, and I just wanna summarize it rather
than to continue to just emphasize on it.
But I'll just read through it
and then we'll talk through it.
It says this, but reject the foolish
and ignorant disputes because you know
that they breed quarrels or fights.
The Lord's servant must not quarrel,
but must be gentle to everyone able
to teach and patient instructing
his opponents with gentleness.
Perhaps God will grant them repentance,
leading them to the knowledge of the.
Then they may come to their senses
and escape the trap of the devil who
has taken them captive to do its will.
Here's what Paul's finally challenging
Timothy and his readers, is this
idea is we have the ability to set
the example for someone's life.
And if we set the example by purifying
ourselves and fall after Jesus and
becoming special instruments for God's
work, that we can help other people
come to know Jesus, repent of their
sins, and be set apart for God's.
We have the ability to influence
people all around us here.
Here's just the truth.
You may walk in this room and think this,
God's not called me to influence people.
I'm not that person.
I'm not an extrovert.
I don't speak in front of people.
I don't have that position.
I work in a cubicle.
I'm not around people.
I'm a, I'm a stay at home mom.
You name it.
You may say you don't have any
influence around anybody around you.
I'll just tell you this.
Liar, liar, pants on.
It's biblical.
I think it's somewhere,
somewhere in Revelation.
I don't know.
That's wrong.
So what I would say though
is think about this.
If you would spend some time to
really understand the influence that
God has placed around you and the
ability to change lives for eternity.
Oh gosh.
Like I'll just tell you this, if
you don't know it, come talk to me.
I'll tell you cuz I see it in your lives.
As a pastor, one of the things I
believe God has called me to do and has
given me a passion to do is believe in
people and to see potential in people.
I believe in you.
I see potential in you.
I see that God can do amazing,
great and mighty things, and I
pray that I'm a person that can
set the example to encourage you
to help change someone else's.
I think of my friend this morning.
We talked about invite cards and I'll
just go ahead and say we have a ton
of invite cards over there that in the
next two months will, will be worthless
cuz we're eventually gonna be moving
spaces and I'll talk more about that.
We need to go invite somebody to church.
You wanna know how important an invite is?
Your pastor wouldn't be here today
is if my friend didn't invite me
to church because my friend invited
me to church at AT in college.
I went to church, spent a year there, gave
my life to Christ and the rest is history.
What if he didn't invite?
My wife's always the sovereignty of God.
He's gonna find a way to use somebody
else, and I agree to, but what if my
friend didn't and somebody else did?
He would've missed out on the
story that we continually have,
and I continue to talk to him
about how he helped change my life.
You would miss out on someone
else coming to faith in Christ and
being used for the glory of God.
Don't miss out on that opportu.
To be the example to those around you.
So let's just walk through this briefly.
He's saying verse 23, to
reject foolish disputes, right?
Fighting and arguing cuz
it just distracts us.
And he was taking that from
earlier in the chapter.
But then verses 24 and 25 followers,
his Jesus basically servants or
honorable vessels should not fight
and argue, but instead so replace.
With being gentle to everyone.
Why are we gentle?
Because here's what we know.
When somebody gets angry,
everybody stops listening, and you
know what you're talking about.
It happens in our marriage.
So when we're gentle, it
seems that people listen more.
What does gentleness bring?
It allows us to have the ability to teach
them what is right and what is wrong.
It allows us to be patient with
him, even with those who are
dishonorable, who are not listening.
I'm telling.
Sometimes we just need to be patient
with people because they're not
ready to come and change their lives.
But if we're patient willing
to teach gentle with them, what
does he say is gonna happen?
God may use you to help them
come to repentance and lead
them to the knowledge of truth.
He's saying this in verse 26,
and I think this is so critical.
He says, Then they may come to their
senses and escape the trap of the devil
who has taken them captive to do his will.
I would say this, if you guys
saw today, someone trapped in a.
If you saw someone trapped in
a house with it on fire, I bet
the majority of you would run in
and try to find a way to help.
Every day.
There's people around you every day.
There's people around you that are trapped
by the devil, and you have the ability as
you purify yourself, set yourself apart,
pursue after God to be a part of rescuing
people, to experience the love the.
Joy of God forgiveness.
I'll just tell you this, I am so glad
that God has invited us on that journey.
You know, you know you've been a part
of teams where they're picking teams
and you're either the last one picked,
or you could be me on a baseball team
if you've been around here long enough.
You heard my story.
They never called me, and my dad
called and they didn't pick me.
I didn't even get to be on the.
It's the cool part.
God chose you.
And you may say, but, but
who did he choose first?
All y'all as God came for
everyone, not for just one.
So you're on the starting team.
I love that aspect that
we're on the starting team.
So as Paul ends this chapter, he
was focusing this chapter on the
opportunity for believers to be
used by God, this side of heaven.
Right?
I've seen it, I've experienced it.
You've heard a little bit of my.
But God has a mighty plan for all of us.
And I want to ask this again.
I ask at the beginning, Do
you wanna be used by God?
Do great and mighty things.
I want you to raise your hand
again if, do you wanna be used by
God to do great and mighty things?
Again, Raise your hand
if you do raise God.
We got at least half of you.
Again, good news, he wants to use you too.
God already knows you're his.
If you already know you're his.
Here's what he says.
Turn from your wicked ways.
Purify yourself, and flee from.
Pursue Jesus righteousness,
faith, love, and peace.
And if we do, God will use
us for a special work during
this time of invitation.
It's simple.
I, I think sometimes I wonder if
invitation lines up perfectly to,
to know what God's calling us to do.
But I think it's simple today
what a God is asking you.
And here's the cool part, as your
pastor, God's asking me, I'm not exempt
from anything that was shared today.
He's asking every one
of us to seek the Lord.
Number one.
This is so critical.
Do I have a relationship with Jesus?
Because if we don't have a
relationship with Jesus, there's no
way we're gonna be able to purify
ourselves because that's only the
grace of God and the mercy of God.
If we don't have a relationship
with Jesus, there's no way we could
pursue righteousness and love and,
and, and peace, because guess what?
We don't even know what
the love of God is.
So if you've never given your life
to Jesus, that's the first step.
I'm always standing in the back
because I want to provide a space
for you to have a quiet conversation.
So if you have questions about what
it means to follow Jesus, please come
back and talk to me during an in.
But the rest of us, we should do
this during our time of invitation.
Begin repent.
Asking God, look into my heart and see
where I need to purify myself, how I
need to avoid the distracting things in
my life and begin to place God first in
my life to begin to pursue godly things.
How do we pursue godly things through
a relationship with Jesus, through the
Word of God and around the people of God?
And as you do, I promise you,
here's what I promise you, God
will do exceedingly, abundantly,
more than you can ask or think.
And here's what I.
I believe God's timing is perfect.
I'm, I'm, I'm gonna get out here.
I'm gonna get real with every one of you.
I, I wanna try to be as
real as I possibly can.
This is not anything I'm just playing on.
I wanna be real.
I think God is ready to do
something cool in our church,
and you wanna know what it is.
It's not this building.
It's you.
It's you back there too
that's standing back there.
I want you to know every one of.
God wants to use you to be a part of this
church, to do great and mighty things.
I cannot force you to be a part of it.
I can invite you and God will not
force you to be a part of that.
That's the thing I love about God.
He does not force you, but it gives
you opportunity to be, It's your choice
and it's going to take linking arms,
cuz I'll just tell you this, I will
struggle in the days ahead sometimes to.
Distractions.
And you know what I need?
I need a guy like James that'll grab
my arm and to say, Buddy, it's okay.
I get it.
Been there, but God wants to use you.
Get up dust off your feet and do it again.
I know you're gonna need it too.
You're gonna need me to say,
Pastor, which I don't go by Pastor.
Just call me Ben.
Ben . Hey, I'm struggling.
Can you pray for me?
Can you help me?
And you know what I'm gonna say?
Yeah, I've been there.
I'm here to.
But man, I, I, I, I'm challenged by this.
There was somebody today waiting on
me on the other side of my obedience
to show up and preach this word.
But here is the cool part.
There's somebody waiting on you, on
the other side of your repentance
today, your commitment to the
Lord, your ability to pursue God.
Don't leave them waiting guys.
Don't leave them waiting.
I am ready to be at a part of something.
because I've experienced what God has
done already in our church, and I wanna
be a part of something more to join me in
this time of invitation to get right with
God and pursue what he's called us to do.
I'm gonna be standing back there.
Brittany's gonna be standing over here.
If you have questions, you just need
prayer, we'd love to pray with you.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we know you are God and we're
not, but you have invited us into the
special place, into the special calling
to be a part of a greater work Lord.
And God, I know that it is difficult
at times to separate ourselves from
the things that are distracting us
from what you've called us to do.
But God, we are asking, we're
pleading today to help us overcome
that through your power, through
your mercy, through your grace.
Lord, let us set aside those things
and let us pursue you and come to know
you more and more through your word.
Um, Lord, just through creation,
through, um, other believers,
Lord, allow us to just be.
And Lord, as we continue to take steps
of faith as a church and as individuals,
Lord, I pray that you use us for a
special work, Lord, that cannot be
explained by anything other than you
working in and through our lives, Lord,
as an empty vessel ready to be filled to
complete whatever you called us to do.
So God use us.
God change us.
God forgive us, and lead us to
where you've called us to go.
And Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Take some time to reflect, pray.